第一集：唱：梆子散板（一）
Episode 1  Singing: Bongzi Sanban (梆子散板) (1)
板腔體分了「梆子」和「二黃」兩大體系，今集會介紹及示範梆子首板及煞板：首板通常出現於一場戲開首，作為一句「上句」；煞板通常用於一場戲結束句，為一句「下句」。

The Banhong Style (板腔體) in Cantonese opera is divided into two major categories of "Bongzi" (梆子) and "Yiwong" (二黃). In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate the singing style of Bongzi. While " Sauban" (首板)  usually appears  at the very beginning of a play, as a "First Sentence".  "Satban" (煞板) is  a second sentence that is usually used in the end of a scene.
第二集 唱：梆子散板（二）
Episode 2  Singing: Bongzi Sanban (梆子散板) (2)
板腔體分了「梆子」和「二黃」兩大體系，今集會介紹及示範梆子散板的滾花類別，它在粵劇曲本時常岀現，包括短句、長句和乙反滾花。

The Banhong Style (板腔體) in Cantonese opera is divided into two major categories of "Bongzi" (梆子) and "Yiwong" (二黃). In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate   the "Gwanfa" (滾花) category of Bongzi Sanban. Gwanfa, which includes "Tuenkui" (short verses, 短句), "Cheungkui " (long verses, 長句) and "Yifan Gwanfa " (乙反滾花).

滾花的特色是有旋律、無叮板，演員先唱出曲詞，音樂按照所唱音階再伴奏，形成先唱後奏的效果。

"Gwanfa" is characterized by its melody without "Dingban" (叮板) and the singing before music. The actor will sing first, then the music would mimic the melody he sung, making an echoing effect. 

第三集 唱：梆子中板（一）
Episode 3  Singing: Bongzi Chungban (梆子中板) (1)

板腔體分了「梆子」和「二黃」兩大體系，今集會介紹及示範梆子中板，包括正、反線中板及古老中板等。

The Banhong Style (板腔體) in Cantonese opera is divided into two major categories of "Bongzi" (梆子) and "Yiwong" (二黃). In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate the category of "Bongzi Chungban", which includes  "Chengsin" (正線), "Fansin  Chungban"(反線中板), "Traditional Chungban"(古老中板).  

中板格式有七字和十字句，拍子是一板一叮，由叮起唱，分平、子、霸的唱法。此外，中板的調式多變，分有正線、反線和乙反，節奏分慢、中和快。

"Chungban" can comes in seven-word or ten-word per sentence with the beats made up of alternating bans and dings. The music starts with a ding. In terms of style, "Bongzi Chungban" can be sung in "Male Voice" (平喉), "Female Voice" (子喉), and "Bahong " (霸腔). Meanwhile, the mode of "Chungban" is changeable. It can be divided into) "Chengsin" (正線), "Fansin" (反線), and "Yifan" (乙反), and "Ti-Fa" (乙反). The rhythm can be slow, moderate, and fast.

第四集 唱：梆子中板（二）
Episode 4  Singing: Bongzi Chungban (梆子中板) (2)

板腔體分了「梆子」和「二黃」兩大體系，今集會介紹及示範梆子中板，包括有序中板、乙反芙蓉中板、減字芙蓉中板等。

The Banhong Style (板腔體) in Cantonese opera is divided into two major categories of "Bongzi" (梆子) and "Yiwong" (二黃). In this episode, we will introduce and demonstratethe category of "Bongzi Chungban", which includes "Yauchui Chungban " (有序中板),  "Yifan Fuyong Chungban"(乙反芙蓉中板),  "Gamzi Fuyong Chungban  (減字芙蓉中板).

第五集 唱：梆子中板（三）
Episode 5  Singing: Bongzi Chungban (梆子中板) (3)

板腔體分了「梆子」和「二黃」兩大體系，今集會介紹及示範不同板式的梆子，如三腳凳、霸腔芙蓉中板、花鼓芙蓉中板等。

The Banhong Style (板腔體) in Cantonese opera is divided into two major categories of "Bongzi" (梆子) and "Yiwong" (二黃). In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate Bongzi with different Bansik (板式), such as "Three-legged Stool" (三腳凳)、"Bahong Fuyong Chungban" (霸腔芙蓉中板)、 "Fakoo Fuyong Chongban" (花鼓芙蓉中板).

第六集 唱：梆子慢板（一）
Episode 6  Singing: Bongzi Manban (梆子慢板) (1)

板腔體分了「梆子」和「二黃」兩大體系，今集會介紹及示範梆子慢板，包括平、子喉梆子慢板和霸腔梆子慢板等。

The Banhong Style (板腔體) in Cantonese opera is divided into two major categories of "Bongzi" (梆子) and "Yiwong" (二黃). In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate "Bongzi Manban" (梆子慢板), including "Manban" in Male Voice (平喉), Female Voice (子喉), and"Bahong" (霸腔). 

梆子慢板，又名「士工慢板」，有平、子、霸、肉帶左、河調數種唱法。在梆子慢板的句式中，第二頓和第三頓中間可加四字活動句，一般為一板三叮。

"Bongzi Manban" is also known as  "Shigong Manban". this style can be sung in Male Voice, Female Voice, Bahong (霸腔), "Yuktaijor" (肉帶左), and "Hodiu" (河調). In "Bongzi Manban", we could add in an extra sentence between the 2nd and 3rd pause, usually a 1 ban 3 dings sentence.

第七集 唱：梆子慢板（二）
Episode 7  Singing: Bongzi Manban (梆子慢板) (2)

板腔體分了「梆子」和「二黃」兩大體系，今集會介紹及示範梆子慢板，包括河調慢板、快慢板、金線吊芙蓉。

The Banhong Style (板腔體) in Cantonese opera is divided into two major categories of "Bongzi" (梆子) and "Yiwong" (二黃). In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate "Bongzi Manban" (梆子慢板), including  Hotiu Manban (河調慢板), "Fai manban " (快慢板) and "Gumsin Diu Fuyong" (金線吊芙蓉)

梆子慢板，又名「士工慢板」，有平、子、霸、肉帶左、河調數種唱法。在梆子慢板的句式中，第二頓和第三頓中間可加四字活動句，一般為一板三叮。

"Bongzi Manban" is also known as  Shigong Manban. this style can be sung in Male Voice, Female Voice, "Bahong" (霸腔), "Yuktaijor" (肉帶左), and "Hodiu" (河調). In "Bongzi Manban", we could add in an extra sentence between the 2nd and 3rd pause, usually a 1 ban 3 dings sentence.


第八集 唱：二黃散板（一）
Episode 8  Singing: Yiwong Sanban (二黃散板) (1)

「打贏唱梆子，打輸唱二黃」，粵劇唱腔兩大體系之一的二黃，旋律比較蒼涼、鬱結，今集會介紹及示範二黃散板的首板、煞板和倒板：首板通常出現於一場戲開首，為一句「上句」；煞板通常用於一場戲結束句，為一句「下句」。

 "You sing Bongzi (梆子) when you win, you sing Yiwong when you lose" .Being one of the two major systems of singing styles in Cantonese opera, Yiwong is featured with a relatively bleak and desolate melody. In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate "Souban" (首板), "Shakban" (煞板), and "Doban" (倒板) of the "Yiwong Sanban". While "Souban" (首板) often usually appears  at the very beginning of a play, as a "First Sentence". "Shakban" (煞板) is. a second sentence that is usually used in the end of a scene.

第九集 唱：二黃散板（二）
Episode 9  Singing: Yiwong Sanban (二黃散板) (2)

「打贏唱梆子，打輸唱二黃」，粵劇唱腔兩大體系之一的二黃，旋律比較蒼涼、鬱結，今集會介紹及示範二黃散板。 

"You sing Bongzi (梆子) when you win, you sing Yiwong when you lose" .Being one of the two major systems of singing styles in Cantonese opera, "Yiwong" is featured with a relatively bleak and desolate melody. In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate "Yiwong Sanban".

二黃滾花，又名「合尺滾花」，分有七字和十字句，亦可有活動句。滾花的特色是有旋律、無叮板，演員先唱出曲詞，音樂按照所唱音階再伴奏，形成先唱後奏的效果。

Yiwong Gwanfa is also known as  "So-Re Gwanfa  " (合尺滾花). The sentences can be in seven or ten words. Action sentences can also be added in this kind of singing style. "Gwanfa" is characterized by its melody without "Dingban" (叮板) and the singing before music.  The actor will sing first, then the music would mimic the melody he sung, making an echoing effect.



第十集 唱：二黃流水板
Episode 10  Singing: Yiwong Laushuiban (二黃流水板)

「打贏唱梆子，打輸唱二黃」，粵劇唱腔兩大體系之一的二黃，旋律比較蒼涼、鬱結，今集會介紹及示範二黄流水板，它俗稱二流，分正線、反線和乙反。
"You sing Bongzi (梆子) when you win, you sing Yiwong when you lose" .Being one of the two major systems of singing styles in Cantonese opera, "Yiwong" is featured by its relatively bleak and desolate melody. In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate "Yiwong Laushuiban" (二黃流水板), commonly known as "Yilau". It can be divided into "Chengsin" (正線), "Fansin" (反線), and "Yifan" (乙反).

第十一集 唱：二黃慢板
Episode 11  Singing: Yiwong Manban (二黃慢板)

「打贏唱梆子，打輸唱二黃」，粵劇唱腔兩大體系之一的二黃，旋律比較蒼涼、鬱結，今集會介紹及示範二黃慢板，包括迴龍腔二黃、長句二黃和反線二黃等。

"You sing Bongzi (梆子) when you win, you sing Yiwong when you lose" .Being one of the two major systems of singing styles in Cantonese opera, "Yiwong" is featured by its relatively bleak and desolate melody. In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate "Yiwong Manban", including "Wuilonghong Yiwong" (迴龍腔二黃), "Changgui Yiwong" (長句二黃), "Fansin Yiwong" (反線二黃). 

第十二集 唱：二黃/西皮
Episode 12  Singing: Yiwong / Saipei (二黃/西皮)

今集的會示範反線二黃、乙反二黃、滴珠二黃及乙反西皮。

In this episode, we will demonstrate "Fansin Yiwong" (反線二黃), "Ti-Fa Yiwong" (乙反二黃), "Dikchu Yiwong" (滴珠二黃) and "Ti-Fa Saipei " (乙反西皮).

第十三集 唱：南音
Episode 13  Singing:  Naamyam (南音)

今集會介紹及示範南音，南音一般分為正線南音、乙反南音、快南音和流水南音，腔方面有拋舟腔，冰魂腔等。

In this episode, we will introduce Naamyam. Naamyam can generally be categorized into "Jingsin Naamyam" (正線南音), "Ti-Fa Naamyam" (乙反南音), "Fai (fast) Naamyam" (快南音) and "Laushui Naamyam" (流水南音). In terms of tunes, there are  "Paujauhong" (拋舟腔),  "Bingwanhong" (冰魂腔).



南音的句式結構起式是三三，七字句是四三，上句是仄聲，下句是陰平聲，再上句是仄聲，下句是陽平聲，周而復始，最後以陽平聲收腔。

 The Sentence structure of Naamyam starts in three syllables and three syllables. The seven-character sentences are divided into parts of four and three syllables. The first sentence is in oblique tone, the second sentence is in the first tone of Cantonese, the Some of the songs, which sung in Mandarin, usually accompanied by "Suona" (嗩吶) or other music accompaniment Paizi originated from Kunqu Opera or "Yikyeunghong" (弋陽腔). "Yamping" tone (陰平聲). Then the alternation repeats in cycles until the very last sentence which will ends in the forth tone, the "Yeungping" tone (陽平聲).

第十四集 唱：說唱 
Episode 14  Singing: Suetcheung (說唱)

粵劇中歌謠體系除了南音外，還有木魚、板眼、喊口歌、山歌和龍舟，今集會為大家逐一示範。

Apart from Naamyam, the ballad styles of Cantonese opera also include "Mukyu" (木魚)," Banngan" (板眼), "Hamhougor" (喊口歌), "Shanggor" (山歌) and  "Lungjau" (龍舟). In this episode, we’ll introduce them one by one.

第十五集 唱：牌子（一）
Episode 15  Singing: Paizi (牌子) (1)

今集示範〈大送子〉，〈大送子〉一共套用十一枝牌子，牌子來源自崑曲或者弋陽腔，多用官話演唱，通常會使用嗩吶或者用音樂伴奏。

In this episode, we’re going to demonstrate "A Fairy Returns Her Son to the Mortal Father", total of 11 Paizis (牌子) were used.  Some of the songs, which sung in Mandarin, usually accompanied by Suona (嗩吶) or other music accompaniment Paizi originated from Kunqu Opera or Yikyeunghong (弋陽腔).

第十六集 唱：牌子（二）
Episode 16  Singing: Paizi (牌子) (2)

牌子來源自崑曲或者弋陽腔，多用官話演唱，通常會使用嗩吶或者用音樂伴奏，今集為大家示範〈俺六國〉、〈嘆顏回〉、〈嘆五更〉和〈矇矓〉等。
 Some of the songs, which sung in Mandarin, usually accompanied by Suona (嗩吶) or other music accompaniment Paizi originated from Kunqu Opera or Yikyeunghong (弋陽腔). In this episode, we will demonstrate"We the Six Nations" (俺六國), "Grief for Ngan Wui " (嘆顏回), " Mourning in the dawn"  (嘆五更), "Drowsy (矇矓)".


第十七集 唱：小曲（一）
Episode 17  Singing: Siukuk (小曲) (1)
小曲可分為古曲和小調，以往很多樂曲從蘇州、杭州傳過來，後期廣東出現很多創作，近代粵劇採納很多西方樂曲以及不同劇種的樂曲，今集為大家示範《游龍戲鳳》之〈平湖秋月〉、《鳳閣恩仇未了情》之〈胡地蠻歌〉、《雷鳴金鼓戰笳聲》之〈送別〉當中的〈絲絲淚〉、《帝女花》 之〈香夭〉當中的〈妝台秋思〉，更特別會示範古腔〈罵玉郎〉。

Siukuk can be  categorized into Gukuk  (古曲)and Siudiu (小調). At first, most of the songs were originated from Suzhou and Hangzhou , those songs fertilized the soil for the future blooming blossom of Guangdong composers. In fact, modern Cantonese opera has adopted many western music elements, while also nurtured from the music of different kinds drama. In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate "Autumn Moon Over the Lake " (平湖秋月) in "The Wandering Dragon Toys with the Phoenix" (游龍戲鳳), "The Barbarian’s Song" (胡地蠻歌) in " The Princess in Distress" (鳳閣恩仇未了情), "Strings of Tears " (絲絲淚) in" Farewell " (送別), an excerpt in "The Sounds of Battle" (雷鳴金鼓戰笳聲), "Autumn Thoughts by the Dressing Table" (妝台秋思) in "The Fragrant Death " (香夭), an excerpt in "Princess Changping" (帝女花). We will also demonstrate "Scolding My Sweetheart" (罵玉郎) in "Guhong" (古腔).

第十八集 唱：小曲（二）
Episode 18  Singing: Siukuk (小曲) (2)
小曲可分為古曲和小調，以往很多樂曲從蘇州、杭州傳過來，後期廣東出現很多創作，近代粵劇採納很多西方樂曲以及不同劇種的樂曲，今集為大家示範《六月雪》之〈十繡香囊〉、《洛神》之〈凌波令〉、《打金枝》之〈走馬〉、《李後主》之〈去國歸降〉當中的〈小桃紅〉 和〈破陣子〉。
Siukuk can be categorized into "Gukuk"  (古曲)and "Siudiu"  (小調).  At first, most of the songs were originated from Suzhou and Hangzhou, those songs fertilized the soil for the future blooming blossom of Guangdong composers. In fact, modern Cantonese opera has adopted many western music elements, while also nurtured from the music of different kinds drama . In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate "Ten-embroidered Sachet" (十繡香囊) in "Summer Snow" (六月雪), "Ling Bor Ling " (凌波令) in "Loksun" (洛神), "Galloping Horse" (走馬) in "Beating the Princess" (打金枝), and "The Little Red Peach" (小桃紅) and "Breaking the Battle Array" (破陣子) in "Surrender" (去國歸降), an excerpt of " The Last Emperor of Southern Tang " (李後主).

第十九集 唸：唸白（一）
Recitation: Nimbak (唸白) (1)
粵劇行內有一句話：「千斤口白四両唱」，可見唸白十分重要，演員會透過強、弱、快、慢的節奏來表達情緒，今集會示範唸白體系中的詩白、打引、英雄白和浪白。
In Cantonese opera, there is a famous saying that recitation is weighted more important than signing.we can see that recitation is more important . The actors will express their emotions through strong, weak, fast, and slow pace. In this episode, we will demonstrate The " Nimbak System" in Cantonese opera is divided into "Szebazk" (詩白poetic), "Dayan" (打引), Yinghungbak (heroic,英雄白), and Longbak (浪白) .

第二十集 唸：唸白（二）
Episode 20  Recitation: Nimbak (唸白) (2)
粵劇行內有一句話：「千斤口白四両唱」，可見唸白十分重要，演員會透過強、弱、快、慢的節奏來表達情緒，今集會示範鑼鼓口白、口古、有韻口白、白欖和讀狀。
In Cantonese opera, there is a famous saying that recitation is weighted more important than signing. we can see that recitation is more importantThe actors will express their emotions through strong, weak, fast, and slow pace. In this episode, we will demonstrate Gongs & Drums Recitation (鑼鼓口白), Haugu (口古), rhymed Haubak (有韻口白), Baklam (白欖) and Dukjong(讀狀).

第二十一集 做：毯子功
Episode 21  Action: Somersaults
毯子功是地毯上的功夫，分有硬毯子和軟毯子兩種，以翻騰、跌撲、摔打幾種的翻騰技巧為訓練項目，在地毯上的為「翻滾」，在空中則為「翻騰」。
Somersaults are usually performed on the carpet.It could be categorized into hard and soft carpet skills. The skills involve tumbling, swooping ( Dit Pok跌撲), and  wrestlingas the training items. Somersaults performed on the carpet are called "rolling", whereas somersaults in the air are called "tumbling". 

本集動作須由專業導師指導，敬請觀眾切勿模仿。
 The following stunts are performed by professionals under expert supervision, please do not try this at home
第二十二集 做：腰腿功
Episode 22  Action: Waist and Leg Skills
腰腿功是戲曲演員的基本功夫，在戲曲舞台上，程式、身段和武打功架都要運用腰腿功。
Being the basic skills of opera actors, waist and leg skills are  required for routines, posturing and martial arts gestures while performing on the stage.

本集動作須由專業導師指導，敬請觀眾切勿模仿。
The following stunts are performed by professionals under expert supervision, please do not try this at home
第二十三集 做：手法
Episode 23  Action: Hand Gesture
手法是手與手臂的動作，包括拉山和指法等等，當中的指法是會按照不同的行當、性別、服飾、身份和穿戴而有不同的指法。
Hand gesture refers to the movement of hands and arms, including "Lai San" (拉山) and "Chi Fat" (finger gestures).Different  kinds of  finger gestures would be used by the character‘s different types of roles, genders, costumes, identities and accessories.

第二十四集 做：步法
Episode 24  Action: Steps
「先看一步走，再聽一張口」，可見步法在某程度上決定一個演員的台風，步法即是台步，亦是粵劇表演中角色的腳步行動特徵和表現方法。
According to many experts,"Steps come before one's singing."A clear statement of how much steps help to represent a charcter steps would vary according to different characters, roles, and even costumes.

身法與步法密不可分，所謂「身由步而動，步隨身而行」，而步法的一切都源自於腰部，所以腰部的運用對步法是非常重要。
As the saying goes, "The body is moved by steps, and steps follow the body." This describes how inseparable the body gesture and steps are.  In fact, all steps movement are started from the waist. Hence, how the waist is used is very important to steps.


第二十五集 做：基本功（一）水䄂功、扇子功
Episode 25 Action: Basic Skills (1) Water Sleeve Techniques, Fan Skills
今集會示範水䄂功和扇子功：水袖功講求手指、手腕、手肘及肩膊的協調和配合，演員可以通過水袖動作表達岀其情緒及美態；扇子功是戲曲表演基本功之一，演員的情緒通過手傳達到扇子，以表達人物的感情、性格和情緒。
Water Sleeve Techniques, Fan Skills will be presented in this episode. The water sleeve technique requires the coordinated movements of the fingers, wrist, Elbows and shoulders. Through the stage movements and sleeves , the performers can express their emotions and show their beauty to the audience by the water sleeve technique . Meanwhile, fan skills are a basic technique of Cantonese Opera. With the help of fans, the performers could excute movements that expressthe character’h of feelings, personalities and emotions.

第二十六集 做：基本功（二）指法、塵拂、大帶
Episode 26  Action: Basic Skills (2) Finger Gestures,  Chan Fut 塵拂 (Fly Whisks), Tai Tai 大帶 (Long Belt)

今集會示範指法、塵拂、大帶：指法是粵劇表演身段中非常重要的一環於指法可以表示到喜怒哀樂；塵拂變化多端，剛柔並重；「大帶」又名「板帶」，是短打武生常見服飾之一，演員使用大帶的過程中必須掌握力度、幅度及角度。
In this episode, we will introduce and demonstrate the Finger  Gestures
, Chan Fut 塵拂 (Cloud Whisks), Tai Tai 大帶 (Long Belt). Finger Gestures is a very important element in the Cantonese opera performance, as  the movement of the fingers can present the feelings of pleasure, anger, sorrow, and joy of the character . As a versatile object on the stage,Chan Fut has both robustness and flexibility. Tai Tai, also known as Ban Tai (Plated Belt), is a piece of Cantonese Opera costume in Martial Role  of Duen Da (close combat). When  wearingTai Tai, the performers must master the force, they used to is, its range and angle. 

第二十七集 做：基本功（三）鬚功、水髮
Episode 27  Action: Basic Skills (3) So Kung 鬚功 ( the technique of beard), Shui Fa (水髮)
今集會示範鬚功、水髮：鬚功是演員透過耍鬚來表達人物的內心情感，鬚功技巧豐富，包括理鬚、挑鬚、彈鬚等，需要長期練習，方能得心應手；耍水髮是用來表現人物落泊、驚恐、無助的精神狀況。
In this episode, we will demonstrate So Kung and Shui Fa. The actor can put the inner emotions of the characters on display through the manipulation. So Kung  is comprised of a wide range of techniques, such as Lee So理鬚 (combing), Tiu So挑鬚 (picking), Tan So 彈鬚 (flicking).  it certainly requires a long time of practice in order to become an expert. Meanwhile, Sa Shui Fat (耍水髮) is used to express the stranded, frightened, or helpless mental states of the characters.

第二十八集 做：上場（一）
Episode 28  Action: Sheung Cheung 上場 (The appearence) (1)
「上場」是演員出場亮相的固定程式，今集會示範多個上場程式，包括大相思上場、中板大撞點上場、老鼠尾上場、南音板面上場和醉酒上場等。

Sheung Cheung (上場) is the set action for an actor to appear on stage. In this episode, we will demonstrate several ways of Sheung Cheung, including "Tai Sheung See Sheung Cheung " (大相思上場), "Chungban Tai Jong Dim Sheung Cheung" (中板大撞點上場), "Lo Shu Mei Sheung Cheung (老鼠尾上場) ", " Sheung Cheung in Naamyam Banmin " (南音板面上場), " Sheung Cheung in the style of Drunken Beauty " (醉酒上場).

第二十九集 做：上場（二）
Episode 29  Action: Sheung Cheung (The appearence上場) (2)
「上場」是演員出場亮相的固定程式，今集會示範多個上場程式，包括七槌鑼鼓上場、和撞鐘上場等。
Sheung Cheung (上場) is the set action for an actor to appear on stage. In this episode, we will demonstrate several ways of Shenug Cheung, including "Tsat Chui Luo Gu (Seven Hammering of Gongs and Drums) Sheung Cheung" (七槌鑼鼓上場), Chong Chung Sheung Cheung (撞鐘上場), etc.

第三十集 打：南派程式（一）手橋
Episode 30  Acrobatics: Nampai (Southern) Style (1) Sau Kiu手橋 (Hand Bridge)
今集會示範手橋，南派手橋是徒手搏擊的招式，講求橋手、腰馬要剛勁有力，動作招式到位、乾淨俐落，對拆時互相配合，拳拳到肉，展現出凌厲的武打場面，它轉化運用到舞台上作為表演，是傳统粤劇武場的特色之一。
In this episode, we will demonstrate Sau Kiu (手橋). As an unarmed combat skill, Nampai Sau Kiu (南派手橋) emphasizes the strength of Kiu Sau (the bridge hand), Jiu Ma(the waistand the legs). The moves have to be precise and crisp. When fighting with each other, coordination is required for the actors have to hit hard,in order to present the fierceness a fighting scene of martial arts. By transforming and adopting the fighting technique in  the stage as a performance, it is one of the characteristics in the Kung Fu scenes in traditional Cantonese opera.

第三十一集 打：南派程式（二）把子
Episode 31  Acrobatics: Nampai (Southern) Style (2) Ba Ji (把子)
粵劇把子，有分「南派把子」 及「北派把子」，今集會示範南派把子。大部分南派把子的開首招式，都是「一二三」，即雙方以纓槍作「上下上」三下對碰。
"Ba Ji "in Cantonese opera handles are divided into "Nampai (Southern Style 南派)  Ba Ji" and "Bukpai (Northern Style北派) Ba Ji". In this episode, we will demonstrate Nampai Ba Ji. Most of the opening moves of the Southern Style Ba Ji start with an "up-down-up" three strikes pattern which would be collaborated by both the actors. .

第三十二集 做：南派程式（三）大架、加官
Episode 32  Acrobatics: Nampai (Sothern) Style (3) Dai Ga (大架), Ga Goon (加官)
大架是粵劇獨有的身段表演程式，相等於京劇的「起霸」、「走邊」，南派大架講究一招一式硬淨有力，配以粵劇的大鑼大鼓，非常有氣勢，今集會示範徒手大架、桃花女架之大架、十三妹大架（文鑼）。
Dai Ga is a performing style of body gestures that is unique to Cantonese opera, same as" Hei Ba (起霸) " and"Jou Bin (走邊) " in Beijing opera.  Dai Ga in the Southern Style emphasises the firmness and power of every single move and gesture.. Matched with the powerful gongs & drums, it is absolutely overwhelming. In this episode, we will demonstrate "Bare Hand Dai Ga(徒手大架)", "Dai Ga of To Fa Nui Ga in female roles ( the peach blossom lady style) ", "Dai Ga of the Thirteenth Sister (Man Lor文鑼) ".

男加官和女加官是粵劇傳統例戲之一，全程配以特定鑼鼓，只有身段動作，沒有唱詞，男加官由呂洪廣示範、女加官由徐月明示範，她用身段砌岀「一品夫人」四字。
"Ga Goon "for male and female roles are both traditional set pieces in Cantonese opera. With specific gong and drum music played throughout,the scenes only involve movements but no singing and dialogues. "Ga Goon "for the Male Role is demonstrate by Lui Hung-kwong, while" Ga Goon "for the Female Role is demonstrate by Chui Yuet-ming, who will use her gesture and body figure to symbolize the four words of "Yat Pun Fu Yen (The First Lady) "

第三十三集 做：南派程式（四）配馬排場、點翰排場
Episode 33  Acrobatics: Nampai (Southern) Style (4) Pui Ma (Horse Matching 配馬) Pai coeng, Dim Hon (點翰) Pai coeng
配馬是粵劇傳統排場做功，通過虛擬動作表演配馬過程，黎耀威、梁非同會分別示範男、女配馬。
Pui Ma (horse matching) is is a performance set piece of traditional Cantonese Opera, through which the horse is matched to the actor through virtual actions. Lai Yiu-wai and Leung Fei-tung will demonstrate Pui Ma for the male and female role respectively.

點翰是粵劇傳統排場之一，故事講述皇帝在金殿，冊封狀元、榜眼和探花。
Dimhon (點翰) is one of the traditional set piece in Cantonese Opera. The story  described the emperor conferring the titles of championship[ Chong Yuen (狀元) ],  second  place[ Bong Ngan (榜眼) ] and third place [Tam Fa (探花)]in the golden palace.

第三十四集 做：南派程式（五）咬箭結拜、鬼擔擔、拜壽
Episode 34  Acrobatics: Nampai  (Southern) Style (5) Ngau Chin Kit Bai (Brothers' Vow by Biting onto Arrows咬箭結拜), Gwei Dam Dam (鬼擔擔), Bai Sau (Birthday Felicitation拜壽)

羅家英和龍貫天分別飾演張忠和鄺瑞龍，示範古老排場之一的〈咬箭結拜〉，這個古老排場特色是口白繁多，有特定的口白曲詞。
Law Ka-ying and Lung Koon-tin will play the roles of Cheung Zung and Kwong  Sui Long respectively and demonstrate "Ngau Chin Kit Bai" (咬箭結拜), one of the ancient Pai coeng.

鬼擔擔來自粵劇傳統排場蘆花蕩，飾演張飛的演員出場時雙手會張開，搭着兩名手下亮相，像擔著擔挑一樣。
"Gwei Dam Dam" originated from the arrangement of "LoFaDong", a traditional Cantonese opera. When the actor who plays the role of Cheung Fei appears on stage,he will open his arms wide and place his hands on the shoulders of his guards, as if he's holding a shoulder pole.


〈拜壽〉是粵劇傳統例戲之一，亦是是粵劇初學者必學排場，家丁和梅香會向老爺賀壽。
As one of set pieces of traditional Cantonese Opera, "Bai Sau" (Birthday Felicitation) is a must-learn for beginners in Cantonese opera. In this story, the servants and Mui Heung(maid) will felicitate to their master on his birthday.

第三十五集 做：手下教材（一）開堂、一綑三標、夾棍、打棍子、花開門、鑼邊花、企洞、七槌
Episode 35	Acrobatics: Sau Ha Teaching Materials (手下教材) (1) Setting up the Court (開堂), Yat Kwan Sam Biu (一綑三標), Kap Gwan夾棍 (Pressing Sticks), Da Gwan Tse (Hit with a Big Stick,打棍子), Fa Hoi Mun (花開門), Lor Bin Fa  (鑼邊花)、Kei Tung (企洞), Tsat Chui (七槌)

大審戲是粵劇獨有演岀，今集會示範開堂、一綑三標及主審官嚴刑迫供時會使用的夾棍、打板子等。
The court trial scenes are unique to Cantonese opera. In this episode, apart from demonstrating Setting up the Court, Yat Kwan Sam Biu, we will also show the judge would then try to force a confession by using severe punishments, such as Kap Gwan (夾棍 Pining on Stick), Da Gwan  Tsz(打棍子 Hitting with stick). 

今集亦會示範花開門及鑼邊花岀場亮相和企洞及七槌上場的表演程式。
In the episode, we will also demonstrate the performance styles of "Fa Hoi Mun "and "Lor Bin Fa "as ways of appearance as well as Sheung Cheung styles of "Kei Tung" and "Tsat Chui"

第三十六集 做：手下教材（二）上轎落轎、祭旗、走蚺蛇、禾花岀水
Episode 36: Acrobatics: Sau Ha Teaching Materials (2 )  Getting on and off a Sedan Chair, Get Going, Ritual, Snake walk, Birds Flying Out from Water

粵劇有很多虛擬的表演動作，今集會示範上轎、落轎。
In Cantonese opera, there are a lot of virtual performances. In this episode, we will demonstrate getting on and off a Sedan Chair,. 

粵劇傳統表演上經常有武打大戰的場面，樂隊會奏出〈點降唇〉牌子和〈小開門〉牌子，配合演員的祭旗排場，祭旗後，眾將士會走圓台入衣邊，再通過後台衣雜箱，趕從什邊復上與敵方應戰，這就是粵劇傳統走蚺蛇。
In traditional Cantonese opera performances, there are often scenes of martial arts fighting. The band will play the Paizi of "Dianjiangchun" (點降唇) and "Xiaokaimen" (小開門) to match with the Paai Coeng to show the flag of sacrifice by performers. After the flag is shown, the generals will march in circles before exiting the stage and move towards backstage around the costume box. By this time, the enemies will march in from the other side and join the fights. In traditional Cantonese opera, this is known as "Snake walk".

粵劇很注重排場，演繹戲份重的角色，上場多有眾人演員襯托，今集示範的禾花出水，就可以欣賞到主角更有份量地亮相的場面。
Cantonese opera attach importance to Pai coeng . Actors who play key roles are often accompanied by many supporting roles as they first appear on the stage. In this episode, we will demonstrate Wo Fa Chut Shui 禾花出水 (Birds Flying out from the Water). By doing so, we can enjoy a scene where the key role makes an important appearance.

第三十七集 淺白深紅斗新妝
Episode 37  Using White and Dark Red in Makeup
今集會由黃成彬和鄧美玲為大家示範小生和花旦的化妝及穿戴。
In this episode, Wong Seng-pan and Tang Mei-ling will demonstrate the make-up and costumes of Siusang (小生) and  Fadan (花旦) in Cantonese opera.

第三十八集 服裝穿戴（一）
Episode 38  Wearing of Costumes (1)
今集會看看演員是如何戴頭飾和穿戲服，行內有俗稱「衣箱」的專業戲服穿戴員為演員穿戲服，一同來看看多個不同特色裝扮的示範！當中包括溫玉瑜示範武生穿戴的夫子巾和男蟒、徐月明示範花旦穿戴的鳳冠女蟒和陳鴻進示範丑生穿戴的小官員扮相。
In this episode, we will look at how the performers wear their head accessories and costumes. In fact, there are professional costume assistants in the industry commonly known as The Wardrobes are responsible for helping the performers wear their costumes. Let’s have a look at the demonstrations of different costumes! Wan Yuk-yu will demonstrate how to wear Fu Ji Gan (夫子巾) and Male Mong 男蟒, Chui Yuet-ming will demonstrates Phoenix Crown and Female Mong- costume and accessories of   Fadan(花旦), and Chan Hung-chun will demonstrate the outfits for Small Officer – costume and accessories of the Clown Role (丑生).


第三十九集 服裝穿戴（二）
Episode 39  Wearing of Accessories (2)
今集會看看演員是如何戴頭飾和穿戲服，行內有俗稱「衣箱」的專業戲服穿戴員為演員穿戲服，一同來看看多個不同特色裝扮的示範，當中包括韋陀、關公、張飛等，更有鄭詠梅為大家示範紮腳！
In this episode, we will look at how the performers wear their head accessories and costumes. In fact, there are professional costume assistants in the industry commonly known as The Wardrobes are responsible for helping the performers wear their costumes. Let’s have a look atthe demonstrations of different costumes for characters such as Wai Tor(韋陀),  Kwan Gong (關公), Cheung Fei (張飛). Cheng Wing-mui will even demonstrate costumes for bound feet.

第四十集 三桌六椅
Episode 40  Three Tables and Six Chairs

粵劇舞台有許多虛擬佈置，用一桌兩椅就能擺放出許多層出不窮的佈景
In the stage of Cantonese opera, there are many virtual arrangements, and many different sceneries can be created by using just one table and two chairs.

今集由俗稱「台口」的粵劇界舞台技術員為我們示範如何使用簡單桌椅擺放不同的場景。
In this episode, some stage technicians of Cantonese opera (known as Toi Hau (台口) will demonstrate set up different scenes according to specific needs. 